Hi, this is Craig Golightly,
and welcome to Customizing Swagger for Your API. Spring is an opinionated
framework. In general, it's going to save you the most time and make things
easiest for you if you follow those opinionated conventions.
Springfox leverages Spring opinions to generate Swagger for
you without adding a lot of annotations.
You certainly can use any of the Swagger annotations you wish.
But for this course,
we're going to focus on those things that maximize what the framework can
automatically do for you. If you have something to add that is not obvious
from the class and variable name, the ApiModelProperty is a useful
annotation. As we've shown before, if you're only adding the class name and
the field name as a description,
don't. These types of descriptions don't add any value,
and they're just going to clutter up your code and documentation.
The annotation is available in the io.swagger.annotations package.
Let's take a look at adding the ApiModelProperty annotation to our Spring
data managed entity, and see how it looks in the Swagger UI. There are a
couple of places in the Swagger UI that you can check out your entity and see
how it's showing up in the documentation.
The first is in Models.
Scroll down to the bottom of the page, then expand Models.
From here, let's look at the Employee model,
and we can see the four attributes of the Employee model.
This matches what we see in the Employee class, id, name, title, and department.
Let's add the ApiModelProperty to add some additional
information about the name attribute.
We've added the description first and last name to the name attribute.
Let's restart the application and see how it changes in
the Swagger UI. We can refresh the page,
go back to the Employee entity, and see the value first and last
name that appears under the name attribute.
Keep in mind, simply adding the class name and the variable name
as a description really doesn't add value,
and will just clutter things up.
So you'll only want to add the ApiModelProperty to your entities if there is
something more to describe than class name and variable name. The other
place you can see the model is in our POST call of the entity. Under
Employee Entity, we'll expand the POST call,
then select Model under body.
Here's displayed the same information about the employee entity, including the additional description that we've added.